***********
prysm v0.13
***********

This release brings a number of new features and enhancements. Users are
encouraged to upgrade from older releases.


New Features
============

* :class:`SlantedEdge` object for image simulation

* :meth:`~prysm.convolution.Convolvable.deconv` on the :class:`Convolvable`
  class to perform Wiener-Hunt deconvolution.

* convenience properties on :class:`OpticalPhase` (:class:`FringeZernike`,
  :class:`Interferogram`, ...) and :class:`Convolvable` objects.

    - :attr:`shape`, :attr:`diameter_x`, :attr:`diameter_y`, and
      :attr:`diameter` on the former.
    - :attr:`shape`, :attr:`support_x`, :attr:`support_y`, and :attr:`support`
      on the latter.

* :attr:`std` property for the standard deviation on :class:`OpticalPhase`
  instances and :attr:`strehl` for the approximate Strehl Ratio on
  :class:`Pupil` instances.

* band-limited RMS evaluation on :class:`Interferogram` objects based on the 2D
  PSD

* analytical Fourier transform on the AiryDisk class for faster, more accurate
  convolutions

* flexible linewidth on many plots

* log scaling on 2D PSF plots

* :attr:`residual` parameter in the :func:`~prysm.fringezernike.fit` function
  from the :mod:`~prysm.fringezernike` module

* azimuthally averaged MTF via the :meth:`~prysm.otf.MTF.azimuthal_average`
  method on the :class:`MTF` class

* convolvables can now be saved with 16-bit precision


Under-the-hood changes and bug fixes
====================================

* :class:`Interferogram` instances no longer cache PSD calculations internally
* The wavefunction associated with an optical pupil is now a property,
  :class:`Pupil`.fcn instead of an attribute. It will be calculated on an
  as-needed basis which eliminates synchronization problems when Pupil instances
  are modified.
* :class:`FZCache` and :class:`MCache` for Fringe Zernikes and masks now
  implement :meth:`__call__`, you can use :code:`mcache(128, 'hexagon')` instead
  of :code:`mcache.get_mask(128, 'hexagon')` and the equivalent for zcache.
* importing of Zygo datx files is now more robust.  Files from the NexView NX2
  now import properly.
* :class:`Convolvable` is now exported at the top level
* :meth:`prysm.convolution.Convolvable.from_file` no longer errors. Users must
  now scale the data after importing on their own, e.g. :code:`Convolvable.data
  /= 255` for an 8 bit per pixel file, or :code:`/= 65535` for a 16-bit file.


Removed Features
================

* :meth:`bandreject_filter` has been removed on the :class:`Interferogram`
  class; the implementation was not well done and the results of low quality.
* :class:`MultispectralPSF` and :class:`RGBPSF` have been dropped; they have
  been neglected for a significant amount of time. MultispectralPSF only
  differed from a PSF in the call to :meth:`__init__`, users can replicate this
  behavior independently.
