***********
prysm v0.14
***********

Version 0.14 introduces a host of new features and critical improvements to existing features of prysm.  Users are encouraged to upgrade from prior releases.

With version 0.15, work will continue on improving the documentation and tests.  When documentation becomes "complete" and coverage exceeds 90%, version 1.0 will be released and prysm will follow more typical semver release patterns.

New Features
============

* :func:`~prysm.fttools.pad2d` from :mod:`prysm.fttools` now takes the :code:`mode` kwarg, wrapping `numpy.pad <https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy-1.15.1/reference/generated/numpy.pad.html>`_ in the non-constant case.

* :func:`~prysm.propagation.prop_pupil_plane_to_psf_plane` now takes the :code:`incoherent` (default :code:`True`) argument.  When :code:`incoherent=False`, the (complex-valued) coherent impulse response is returned.

* wrap-around effects in convolutions have been reduced.

* there is a new :func:`~prysm.geometry.truecircle` mask in :mod:`prysm.geometry` which has anti-aliased edges for improved simulation accuracy.

* :func:`~prysm.io.read_mtfmapper_sfr_single` function in :mod:`prysm.io` to read outputs from `MTF Mapper <http://mtfmapper.blogspot.com/>`_ with the :code:`-f --single-roi` arguments.

* :attr:`semidiameter` attr on :class:`~prysm._phase.OpticalPhase` class and subclasses (:class:`FringeZernike`, :class:`Interferogram`, ...).

* :code:`show_colorbar` option on :meth:`~prysm._phase.OpticalPhase.plot2d`.

* all masks in :mod:`prysm.geometry` now take a :code:`radius` argument.

* :meth:`prysm.interferogram.Interferogram.mask` now takes descriptive arguments, e.g. :code:`i.mask('circle', diameter=100)` for a 100mm diameter circle.  The :code:`mask` kwarg still exists for user-provided masks.

* :attr:`prysm.interferogram.Interferogram.pvr` for PVr analysis.

* in :mod:`prysm.fringezernike`: :func:`fzname` function to return the name of the nth Fringe Zernike with :code:`base` (0 or 1).

* :func:`fzset_to_magnitude_angle` function to convert a list of (X-Y) Zernikes to (magnitude-angle) form.

* :attr:`FringeZernike.magnitudes` property to access :func:`fzset_to_magnitude_angle` on a :class:`FringeZernike` instance.

* :meth:`~prysm.fringezernike.FringeZernike.top_n` method for :class:`FringeZernike` pupils to list the top n coefficients by magnitude.

* :meth:`~prysm.fringezernike.FringeZernike.barplot` method for :class:`FringeZernike` pupils to plot their coefficients.

* :meth:`~prysm.fringezernike.FringeZernike.barplot_magnitudes` method to plot their pairwise magnitudes (e.g, one bar for primary astigmatism).

* :meth:`~prysm.fringezernike.FringeZernike.barplot_topn` method to plot the top n coefficients only.

* :meth:`~prysm.fringezernike.FringeZernike.truncate` method to reduce :class:`FringeZernike` pupils to the first n terms.

* :meth:`~prysm.fringezernike.FringeZernike.truncate_topn` method to reduce to top n terms.

* :attr:`~prysm.detector.Detector.fs` and :attr:`~prysm.detector.Detector.nyquist` properties on the :class:`~prysm.detector.Detector` class for the sampling and nyquist frequencies in cy/mm.

* :code:`crossed` parameter in :class:`~prysm.objects.SlantedEdge` constructor to produce a "BMW target"

* :func:`~prysm.interferogram.ab_psd` function in :mod:`prysm.interferogram` for inverse power law PSD curves.

Breaking Changes
================

* :code:`rms_norm` in functions related to Zernikes has been renamed to :code:`norm`.  This affects the :func:`~prysm.fringezernike.fit` function from :mod:`prysm.fringezernike` as well as the :class:`FringeZernike` class.

* :code:`num_terms` on the :func:`fit` function is now renamed to :code:`terms`.

* :code:`num_spokes` on :class:`~prysm.objects.SiemensStar` has been renamed to :code:`spokes`.

* :code:`num_pts` on :func:`prysm.otf.diffraction_limited_mtf` has been renamed to :code:`samples`.

* :code:`num_samples` has been renamed to :code:`samples` in :func:`prysm.propagation.pupil_sample_to_psf_sample` and :func:`~prysm.propagation.psf_sample_to_pupil_sample`.

* the :code:`epd` keyword argument on :class:`~prysm.pupil.Pupil` instances has been renamed to :code:`dia`.  This also affects the :class:`FringeZernike` and :class:`Seidel` subclasses.

* :meth:`prysm.interferogram.Interferogram.plot_psd_xyavg` has been renamed to :code:`plot_psd_xy_avg`.

Under-the-hood Changes
======================

* :attr:`samples_x`, :attr:`samples_y`, :attr:`center_x`, and :attr:`center_y` are now properties of :class:`~prysm._phase.OpticalPhase` instances (:class:`Pupils`, :class:`Interferograms`, ...) instead of attrs.  This helps eliminate synchronization problems when the data is modified.

* :code:`imwrite` is used from imageio, not :code:`imsave` to follow best practice.

* :func:`~prysm.geometry.circle` from :mod:`prysm.geometry` is now exported at the top level.

* :class:`~prysm.detector.Detector` now defaults to 16-bit precision.

* import of :code:`h5py` for datx files is now deferred for faster imports of prysm.

* :code:`matplotlib` is now an optional dependency and its import is deferred for faster imports of prysm.

* :class:`~prysm._phase.OpticalPhase` now provides default values for :attr:`xaxis_label`, :attr:`yaxis_label`, and :attr:`zaxis_label` to avoid errors on subclasses.  Users should still provide better values for subclasses.

* :class:`~prysm.geometry.MaskCache` argument order has changed from :code:`samples, shape` to :code:`shape, samples, radius`.

* data from Zygo datx files is now flipped to maintain consistent orientation with the representation in Mx.

* in :mod:`prysm._zernikes`, :code:`Tip (Y)` has been renamed :code:`Tilt Y`.  :code:`Tilt (X)` has been renamed :code:`Tilt X`.

* the :attr:`coefs` attr on :class:`FringeZernike` instances is now a numpy array.  Piston tip and tilt can be suppressed by invoking :code:`fz.coefs[:3] = 0; fz.build(); fz.mask(fz._mask, fz._mask_target);`.

* PSD calculation has been rewritten.  PSD results are now properly normalized to be a true PSD.  Prior results should be considered in error.

Bugfixes
========

* fix :meth:`prysm.convolution.Convolvable.show` errors when no xlim or ylim provided.

* fix :attr:`OpticalPhase.samples_x` and :attr:`samples_y` lookup.

* coefficients from :func:`prysm.fringezernike.fit` are no longer transposed in the Cartesian plane.

* calling :meth:`Interferogram.crop` with data spanning the entire array no longer causes an error.

* Initializing an :class:`Interferogram` with no :code:`meta` dictionary no longer causes an error.
