***********
prysm v0.15
***********

New Features
============

* Surface/Wavefront error synthesis: :mod:`~prysm.interferogram` now contains the :func:`~prysm.interferogram.synthesize_surface_from_psd` core method and :func:`~prysm.interferogram.render_synthetic_surface` and :meth:`~prysm.interferogram.Interferogram.render_from_psd` convenience wrappers for synthesizing surface or wavefront data from PSD curves.  Examples of this technique can be seen in e.g. _E. Sidick Power Spectral Density Specification and Analysis of Large Optical Surfaces_.

* convenience wrapper :meth:`~prysm.interferogram.Interferogram.fit_zernikes` replacing :code:`zernikefit(i.phase, ...)` invocation.

* :func:`~prysm.io.write_zygo_ascii` function in :mod:`prysm.io` to write Zygo ASCII files.

* :meth:`~prysm.interferogram.Interferogram.save_zygo_ascii` to write an interferogram to Zygo ASCII format.

* :code:`zorder` parameter in line-based plotting functions -- :meth:`prysm._phase.OpticalPhase.plot_slice_xy`, :meth:`prysm.convolution.Convolvable.plot_slice_xy`, :meth:`prysm.interferogram.Interferogram.plot_psd_slices`

* :code:`mode` argument on :meth:`prysm.interferogram.Interferogram.plot_psd_slices` to switch between x axis units of spatial frequency (:code:`mode='freq'`) or spatial period (:code:`mode='period'`).

* :meth:`prysm.interferogram.Interferogram.psd_slices` and :meth:`prysm.interferogram.Interferogram.plot_psd_slices` methods replacing `psd_xy_avg` method.  Two new inquiries are :code:`azmin` and :code:`azmax` for the azimuthal minimum and azimuthal maximum.

* :meth:`prysm.psf.PSF.polychromatic` staticmethod to create polychromatic PSFs from ensembles of monochromatic ones.  This essentially reintroduces the `MultispectralPSF` class's functionality from earlier versions of prysm.

* more configuration options.  :data:`~prysm.conf.config` now has parameters for :code:`Q`, :code:`phase_colormap`, :code:`image_colormap`, :code:`lw`, :code:`zorder` for controlling the default values of these parameters throughout the library.

* new constants in :mod:`prysm.psf` -- :data:`~prysm.psf.FIRST_AIRY_ZERO`, :data:`~prysm.psf.SECOND_AIRY_ZERO`, AND :data:`~prysm.psf.THIRD_AIRY_ZERO` as well as :data:`~prysm.psf.SECOND_AIRY_ENCIRCLED` AND :data:`~prysm.psf.THIRD_AIRY_ENCIRCLED`.  These concern the zeros of the airy disk and how much of the total energy is contained within.  They are all wrapped in :data:`~prysm.psf.AIRYDATA`, a dictionary with keys of 1,2,3 and values that are length-2 tuples of :code:`(radius, encircled energy)`.

Beta Features
=============

* :func:`prysm.otf.long_exposure_otf` and :func:`prysm.otf.estimate_Cn` for calculating the OTF (MTF) associated with a 'long' exposure through atmospheric turbulence.  Note that while the equations have been implemented, the results have not been checked against published values.  Please provide feedback.

Improved Packaging
==================

* prysm now uses `setup.cfg` and some setuptools tricks.  It now has the :data:`prysm.__version__` attribute and can be more easily scanned by crawlers without executing setup.py.

Improved Documentation
======================

* The User's guide and Examples sections of the documentation are now jupyter notebooks and have embedded graphics and output.

* There are several new examples.

Improved Test Coverage
======================

* Test coverage is now > 80%

Breaking API Changes
====================

* :meth:`Interferogram.psd_xy_avg` has been removed, its functionality is now the same as the default for :meth:`Interferogram.psd_slices`

* :meth:`Interferogram.plot_psd_xy_avg` faces the same change for :meth:`Interferogram.plot_psd_slices`.  Note that two calls are now needed to replicate the default behavior:

.. code-block:: python

    fig, ax = i.plot_psd_slices(x=True, y=True, alpha=0.4, lw=3)
    fig, ax = i.plot_psd_slices(x=False, y=False, azavg=True, lw=4.5, fig=fig, ax=ax)


* :func:`prysm.psf._airydisk` has been renamed to :func:`prysm.psf.airydisk`.

* the :mod:`lens` submodule has been removed.  This eliminates the :class:`Lens` class.

* the :mod:`seidel` submodule has been removed.  This eliminates the :class:`Seidel` class.

* the :mod:`shackhartmann` submodule has been removed.  This eliminates the :class:`Shackhartmann` class.

* the :mod:`macros` submodule has been removed.  This eliminates the :class:`SystemConfig` namedtuple, the :func:`thrufocus_mtf_from_wavefront` and :func:`thrufocus_mtf_from_wavefront_array` functions.

* :func:`prysm.detector.generate_mtf` has been removed.  This function is redundant with :func:`prysm.detector.pixelaperture_analytic_otf`.

* :meth:`prysm.detector.OLPF.__init__` now defaults to `samples_x=0`, using the analytical representation in the numerical case.

* The great Zernike refactor of 2019:

  - :mod:`prysm.fringezernike` has been folded into :mod:`prysm.zernike`.  Several functions have been renamed:

    + :func:`fit` is now :func:`~prysm.zernike.zernikefit` called as :code:`zernikefit(... map_='fringe')` (or :code:`map_='noll'`)

    + magnitude/angle and name functions are now part of the :data:`zernikefuncs` dictionary of dictionaries.  Keys are, in order, function type and zernike order.  :func:`fzname` is now accessed most easily as :code:`zernikefuncs['name']['fringe']`.  :func:`fzset_to_magnitude_angle` as :code:`zernikefuncs['magnitude_angle']['fringe']`.  noll is a valid key for the nested dictionary.

    +  :class:`FZCache` and :data:`fzcache` are nwo made redundant by :class:`~prysm.zernike.ZCache` and :data:`~prysm.zernike.zcache`.  The cache takes an index into the :data:`prysm.zernikes.zernikes` list, not a Fringe or Noll index.  Use :data:`prysm.zernikes.maps` to convert Fringe or Noll indices into prysm's zernike catalog.

  - the :class:`StandardZernike` class from :mod:`prysm.standardzernike` has been replaced with :class:`~prysm.zernike.NollZernike` from :mod:`prysm.zernike,` or as imported from the top-level namespace.

    + :class:`~prysm.zernike.NollZernike` allows coefficients from 0 to 36 or 1 to 37 and has all features present in :class:`~prysm.zernike.FringeZernike`, unlike the prior :class:`StandardZernike` class.

   - :mod:`prysm._zernike` is now :mod:`prysm.zernike`

Under-the-hood Changes
======================

* Angles of rotationally invariant terms in Fringe Zernike magnitude sets are now zero.

* use of `isfinite` and `isnan` optimized for internal routines.

Bugfixes
========

* `wavelength` is properly captured in :meth:`prysm.pupil.Pupil.from_interferogram`.

* :meth:`prysm.convolution.Convolvable.from_file` no longer mangles x and y units.

* :meth:`prysm.psf.PSF.encircled_energy` has been reworked, improving accuracy by about 2.3%.

* :attr:`prysm._basicdata.BasicData.center_x` and :attr:`~BasicData.center_y` are now properly computed.  Fixes #2.
