***********
prysm v0.18
***********

This release brings several enhancements related to processing interferoemter
data, and completes the update of the Zernike module.  Perhaps as a breath of
fresh air, you are likely to experience *zero* breaking changes.  Users are
encouraged to upgrade, and remove any error correction logic from their own
processing pipelines.

New Features
============

- new function :func:`prysm.geometry.rectangle` for generating rectangular
  windows
- new method :meth:`prysm.psf.PSF.centroid` for computing the centroid of a PSF
- new method :meth:`prysm.psf.PSF.autowindow` for centering the data on the data
  of a PSF, based on its centroid

The Zernike module has completed its overhaul.  This brings the following
changes:

- both Fringe and Noll zernike classes now allow expansion up to arbitrary order
- the performance of Zernike calculations is improved by 2-3x vs 0.17 when numba
  was installed.  More than 10x compared to 0.17 without numba.  Numba is now
  never used, which results in faster imports when it is installed.
- New functions:
- - :func:`~prysm.zernike.fringe_to_n_m` for converting (arbitrary) Fringe index
    -> (n,m).  One based.
- - :func:`~prysm.zernike.n_m_to_name` for retrieving the name from (n, m)
    orders.

- New capability:
- - :func:`~prysm.zernike.zernikefit` can fit from (n,m) indices, and fit
    isolated terms without fitting all of the lower order ones

Breaking: - the list :code:`prysm.zernike.zernikes` no longer exists - the
explicit functions such as :func:`~prysm.zernike.primary_spherical` now only
include up to primary trefoil.  You must use another method (such as the caches)
to access higher order polynomials. - all explicit zernike functions no longer
have :code:`name` or :code:`norm` attributes.  Use the enumerated new functions
above to get the name or norm of a term from its index -
:code:`prysm.zernike.zcache` no longer exists.  :class:`~prysm.zernike.ZCacheMN`
replaces :code:`ZCache`.  In 0.19, :code:`ZCache` will become an alias for
:code:`ZCacheMN`. - :func:`prysm.zernike.zernikename` is deleted, use
:func:`~prysm.zernike.n_m_to_name` and the various xxxx_to_n_m functions in its
place. - the "base" kwarg to Zernike classes is deprecated and will be removed
in 0.19

Bug fixes
=========

The Zygo datx importer was rewritten.  It now never results in improperly scaled
phase.  The :code:`meta` attribute on interferograms from
:meth:`~prysm.interferogram.Interferogram.from_zygo_dat` may differ in its keys
due to these changes.

Under-the-hood
==============

For :class:`OpticalPhase`, the phase attribute is now a property that points to
:code:`.data`.  This makes *all* prysm classes have a common location holding
their primary data array, improving cohesion.  If you access the phase attribute
directly, there is no change in your code or its behavior.

New Documentation
=================

- :func:`prysm.geometry.mask_cleaner` now has a docstring.  You probably won't
  use this function.
- :class:`prysm.interferogram.PSD` now has a docstring.
